So we want to pass our entered name up to the app component from inside our person input component
and for this, we can set up our own event binding or our own bindable event to be precise.
Now for our own property binding, we used input as a decorator, for our own event binding,
we use output.
So let's import output from @angular/core in the person input component
and now we just need to use a property which will basically be turned into our own event transmitter
you could say, our own event emitter. I'll add this property here as the first property maybe
but that's up to you, the order doesn't matter
and I'll name it person
create, the name is totally up to you.
Now in front of that, I'll add @output with parentheses
and now I will initialize this with a default value which we also have to import from @angular/core
and that's the event emitter object.
This actually is a class or a constructor function and therefore we can use the new keyword to create
a new event emitter object based on that class,
that is what we store in person create.
Now this is a so-called generic type which means we can add this strange smaller than, greater than signs
here and in between, we defined the type of data our event will eventually hold as data when we emit
it
because you can pass some data along with your event and I want to pass a string because I want to pass
the entered name with my event and that is what we defined with this syntax here.
Now down there before we reset the input, I can therefore then call this person create and then call
emit
and this is a method made available by the event emitter and then as an argument here, we pass the
data we want to pass along with our event and here,
this is our enteredPersonName.
Now we're emitting this and thanks to @output,
we can listen to this from outside,
so from the parent component of this component, the component where we use this selector.
So let's go to the app component where we do use it
and now here with the parentheses syntax, we can listen to person create
and then again, execute a function like onPersonCreated. Let's add this here in app.component.ts,
onPersonCreated
and of course we now want to get that name that was created.
We do pass it in person input, I do pass it to the emit method and in app component, to pass it along
as an argument to this method, we can use a special reserved variable name, $event and that
is a name automatically created by Angular, it holds the data our event carries. If we don't pass it, our
data will basically be lost, if we pass this special name here, Angular will forward the data of the event
to which you're listening,
so the data of the person create event in this case.
This means our data will now reach our method here and there, it will be the name of that person which
will be a string in the end. Well and here, we can now simply use persons and push, that's a default Javascript
method, push the name onto this array. And with this if we go back and I add Michael here, you see it's added
and the DOM automatically updates and the page never reloads. All of that happens behind the scenes
through Javascript, thanks to Angular.